---
title: "Vox Draconis"
date: 1997-01-15T06:51:38-06:00
draft: false
summary: "The first RPG I ever published online. It's heavily derivative of basic D&D."
style: "fantasy"
logo: "voxdraconis"
---

Written by Ben Overmyer, 1997

Note: This is the oldest version of the rules I could find online.

**Contents**
============

[**I. Introduction**](#part1)

[How To Play](#HowtoPlay)

[**II. Character Generation**](#part2)

[**How To Create a Character**](#Character)

[**Character Types**](#Types)

[**Warriors**](#warriors)

[**Wizards**](#wizards)

[**Rogues**](#rogues)

[**Others, Including Shapeshifters**](#others)

[**Races**](#Races)

[**Ability Scores**](#Abilities)

[**Experience**](#Experience)

[**Equipment List**](#Equipment)

[**III. Encounters**](#Encounters)

[**Reactions**](#Reactions)

[**Combat**](#Combat)

[**Minions**](#Minions)

[**IV. Gamesmaster Information**](#part4)

[**Dragonworld Creation**](#Dragonworld)

[How To Build a Dragonworld](#Howto)

[How To Build a Dungeon, Castle, or Keep](#HowtoCastle)

[How To Create Planar Rifts](#HowtoRift)

[**The World of Desova: A Sample Dragonworld**](#Desova)

[**Monster List**](#Monsters)

[**Vox Draconis Magic System**](#Magic)

[**V. Conclusion**](#part5)

[**Afterword**](#Afterword)

[**Credits**](#Credits)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Part 1: Introduction**]{#part1 .anchor}
==========================================

Hi, and welcome to Vox Draconis, the game of high adventure in a
somewhat confused world of dinosaurs, dragons, monsters, and men. The
Basic Rules, this book, contains the basic mechanics for running and
playing a game of adventure in the Known Planes. You only need some
six-sided dice, a pencil, paper, and this rulebook to begin your
adventures. This game is a role-playing game, in which each player
creates a character and then, under the supervision of the games master,
or referee, they act them out.

[How To Play]{#HowtoPlay .anchor}
---------------------------------

Once you have the materials and players for the game, you, the referee,
must have an adventure set up or bought which you will base your game
on. The adventure can be anything from defeating a giant Tyrannosaurus
Rex to sealing an active volcano. The world of Vox Draconis is a vast
one. Once you have the game set up, your players organized into an
adventuring party, and all your props collected, you can begin. See the
section on Dragonworld Creation for information on building your own
worlds.

### [The Dice System]{#TheDiceSystem .anchor}

The six-sided dice used in Vox Draconis are referred to in the rules
using this format:

(Number of dice)d(number of sides)

For example, 4d6 means roll four six-sided dice.

[**Part 2: Character Generation**]{#part2 .anchor}
==================================================

[How to Create a Character]{#Character .anchor}
-----------------------------------------------

Creating a character could be an art in itself. The character that you
create is like an incarnation of yourself, but in a different world, and
with different abilities. Before you make one, you must understand that
this character should be well described, so you \"know\" the character.
Here is a list of the steps that must be taken to generate a character:

1.  Roll 3d6 for each of your ability scores.
2.  Select a race, and adjust your ability scores accordingly.
3.  Select a character type.
4.  Name the character.
5.  Roll 3d6 x 10 for your starting funds(in Metal Coins)
6.  Describe your character\'s features, such as sex, weight, height,
    eye color, etc.
7.  (OPTIONAL) Write a brief history of your character,

[**Character Types**]{#Types .anchor}
-------------------------------------

### [Warriors]{#warriors .anchor}

**Dragon Rider:** The Dragon Riders are a proud group. They bond with a
dragon when both are very young. If the dragon is harmed, it affects its
rider considerably. For every 10 dragon Life Points(LP) lost, the rider
loses one. Dragons always have 1d6x10 LP to begin with, and do 3d6
damage. The rider has 1d6+2 LP. The Prime Requisites for Dragon Riders
are strength and spirit of 13.

**Raptor Rider:** Raptor Riders are vicious hunters. They bond with a
raptor when they defeat it in battle. Only 40% of the time will a
character become a Raptor Rider. Raptors have 2d6 x 5 LP, but do 5d6
damage due to their vicious nature. Raptor Riders have 1d6+2 LP. The
Prime Requisite for Raptor Riders is strength of 13.

### [Wizards]{#wizards .anchor}

**Shadowmage:** Shadowmages are wizards that have mastered the art of
Shadow Magic. They get a bonus to the base chance of Teleporting (+30%)
if their Magical Ability score is higher than 15. They must have a
Magical Ability score of 13. Shadowmages have 1d6+1 LP.

**Firemage:** Firemages have mastered fire-based magic. They use Fire
Magic. They get a bonus to base chance of Command Lava (+10% ) if their
Magical Ability is 15 or over. Firemages must have a Magical Ability and
Spirit of 14. They have1d6-1 LP.

**Starmage:** Starmages are actually astronomers with no magical powers.
They do, however, have the only pre-hi-tech equipment in Vox Draconis:
semi-automatic crossbows which do 2d6 damage. These auto-load weapons
require bolts, though. Starmages also have the ability to predict the
future (40% chance). They must have a Perception score of 15. Starmages
have 1d6 LP.

**Darkmage:** Darkmages are also called necromancers, the feared
warlocks that raise the dead.They are the most dangerous of all the
mages, as they have Necromantic Magic. They gain no bonuses for extra
Magical Ability points. They need a Magical Ability score of 15. They
have 1d6 LP.

### [Rogues]{#rogues .anchor}

**Thief:** You, no doubt, know what a thief is. They must have a
Dexterity and Agility score of 13. Thieves can (55% chance) move
silently, pick pockets, and pick locks. They have 1d6-1 LP.

**Bard:** Bards are musicians. Their music is magical; it heals(1d6-2
per song per level). Bards must buy a musical instrument of some type.
They need a Spirit, Perception, and Dexterity score of 14. They have 1d6
LP.

### [Others, Including Shapeshifters]{#others .anchor}

**Raptorian:** Raptorians can transform into Velociraptors. They do the
same amount of damage as normal raptors (see Raptor Riders ). They
require a Shapeshifting score of 15. Raptorians also get 2d6 LP.

**Dragonoid:** Dragonoids can transform into Gray Dragons. They do the
same amount of damage as normal dragons, but have 2d6+3 LP. They require
a Shapeshifting score of 16.

**Priest:** Priests are the \"voices of the gods\", meaning they can use
the powers of their worshipped god. In return, the priest must carry out
the god/goddess\'s wishes. Requirements are: Spirit of 13. See Gods of
Desova in the Dragonworld Creation section for LP.

[Races]{#Races .anchor}
-----------------------

**Human:** Humans are the most common race, and have no ability
adjustments. They can be all classes.

**Gray Elf:** Gray Elves are dark, mysterious creatures that live in
forests. They have pointed ears, brown hair, and musical speech. They
get a +1 to Magical Ability and a -1 to Dexterity. They can be all
character types except Rogues.

**Noble Elf:** Noble Elves are arrogant versions of their woodland
cousins. They have a -1 to Spirit and a +1 to Magical Ability. They can
only be wizards and Rider / fighters.

**Cave Elf:** Cave Elves are elven versions of cavemen. They gain a +2
to Strength and a -2 to Magical Ability. Cave Elves can be any character
type except wizards.

**Dwarf:** Dwarves are short, stout fellows that are fierce miners and
fighters. They gain a +1 to Dexterity and Strength but a -2 in Magical
Ability. They can be any type except wizards.

**Gargoyle:** Gargoyles are also called Stone Elves because of their
close resemblance. However, dawn, they become stone until sundown. They
gain the same ability adjustments as Cave Elves.

[Ability Scores]{#Abilities .anchor}
------------------------------------

**Strength:** Strength is a measure of physical power.

**Magical Ability:** How magically \"in tune\" you are.

**Dexterity:** Your ability to use your hands.

**Spirit:** A measure of willpower.

**Agility:** Basically, how agile you are.

**Perception:** Your character\'s eyesight.

**Shapeshifting:** The ability to shapeshift is also recorded.

Ability scores are used to measure your power. If a player rolls all
single digits, he / she may roll again. There are three \"other\"
scores: Life Points, Armor Class, and Spell Points. Hit Points (LP) are
determined by character type. Armor Class is determined by the type of
armor you buy: see COMBAT. Spell Points are determined by the following
formula:

((Magical Ability + Spirit) ร Level) รท 5

An example: Magical Ability 15, Spirit 13, 3rd Level = 84 รท 5 = 17 Spell
Points

[Experience]{#Experience .anchor}
---------------------------------

In order to advance through levels, a character has to gain experience.
This experience is recorded with points. For each spell successfully
used or training received, the character gains experience points. The
two types of experience are given here:

Spell Successfully Cast: 10 Experience Points, +5% to Base Chance

Training: 20 Experience Points

### Level Advance Table: Wizards, Priests, and Shapeshifters

  Level   Experience Needed   Wizard/Priest Bonuses   Shapeshifter Bonuses
  ------- ------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------
  1       100                 +5% to Base Chances     +5% to Base Chance
  2       200                 +10% to Base Chances    +10% to Base Chance
  3       400                 +15% to Base Chances    +15 to Base Chance
  4       800                 +20% to Base Chances    +25% to Base Chance

### Level Advance Table: Riders and Thieves

  Level   Experience Needed   Riders: \# of Weapons   Thief Bonuses
  ------- ------------------- ----------------------- ------------------
  1       50                  1                       +5% Base Chance
  2       100                 2                       +10% Base Chance
  3       200                 3                       +15% Base Chance
  4       400                 4                       +20% Base Chance

### Level Advance Table: Bards

  Level   Experience Needed   Bard Bonuses
  ------- ------------------- ---------------------------------------
  1       200                 1d6+1 Healing Song, 1d6 Damage Song
  2       400                 1d6+2 Healing Song, 1d6+1 Damage Song
  3       800                 1d6+3 Healing Song, 1d6+2 Damage Song

[**Equipment List: Desova**]{#Equipment .anchor}
------------------------------------------------

### Weapons

  Name            Damage   Cost
  --------------- -------- -------
  Club, Wooden    1d6-2    5 mc
  Club, Iron      1d6      10 mc
  Mace            1d6+1    20 mc
  Megamace        1d6+3    45 mc
  Sword, Short    1d6+4    50 mc
  Sword, Normal   1d6+5    55 mc
  Sword, Long     1d6+5    60 mc
  Sword, Broad    2d6      65 mc
  Sssvraneblade   3d6      90 mc

### Armor & Shields

  Name                Armor Class   Cost
  ------------------- ------------- --------
  Ankloplate Shield   AC+2          30 mc
  Anklosaur Armor     AC 5          80 mc
  Hardleaf Mail       AC 8          20 mc
  Hardleaf Shield     AC+1          10 mc
  Iron Shield         AC+4          250 mc
  Iron mail           AC 2          200 mc
  Megaironmail        AC 0          300 mc
  Megaplate Shield    AC+3          60 mc
  Megasaur Armor      AC 3          150 mc

### Other Equipment

  Name                        Cost
  --------------------------- --------
  Astronomer\'s Telescope     500 mc
  Backpack (10 slots)         10 mc
  Bag (3 slots)               3 mc
  Bag (5 slots)               5 mc
  Bard\'s Lyre                15 mc
  Bard\'s Flute               10 mc
  Bard\'s Harp                20 mc
  Customized Robes (AC 10)    10 mc
  Foodpack (5 days\' worth)   5 mc
  Raptor Claw Hook^1^         5 mc
  T-Rex Tooth Hook^2^         10 mc
  Vine Rope (50 feet)         5 mc
  Water & Flask (5 days)      5 mc

^1^ The Raptor Claw Hook can be used as a weapon (1d6-3 damage).

^2^ The T. Rex Tooth Hook can also be used as a weapon (1d6-2 damage).

[**Part 3: Encounters**]{#Encounters .anchor}
=============================================

[Reactions]{#Reactions .anchor}
-------------------------------

When a player character (PC) encounters an other character(OC), the
resulting communication is handled as follows:

1.  The PC rolls 2d6.
2.  The PC consults the Reaction Table to see what the reaction was.

### Reaction Table

  ----------- ------------------------------------------
  Dice Roll   Reaction
  2           Extremely Hostile, Immediate Attack
  3-5         Hostile, Possible Attack
  6-8         Uncertain, OC Confused
  9-11        No Attack, OC Leaves or Considers Offers
  12          Enthusiastic Friendship
  ----------- ------------------------------------------

[Combat]{#Combat .anchor}
-------------------------

Combat occurs when characters fight monsters or other characters. In
combat, opponents are referred to as different \"sides\". It is possible
to have several groups fighting each other and therefore have more than
2 sides. Combat includes throwing weapons, such as rocks, casting spells
and meleeing or fighting with handheld weapons such as swords. The
following sequence is used to resolve combat.

[Combat Sequence]{.underline}

1.  Each side rolls for initiative (1d6).
2.  The side that wins the initiative acts first.
    1.  Movement per round, meleed opponents may only move defensively.
    2.  Missile fire combat:
        1.  Choose targets
        2.  Both sides roll 3d6 to hit/defend; adjust result by range,
            cover, and magic
        3.  GM rolls damage; adjust result by armor (subtract (AC - 10).
            Negatives become positives (example: -7 means subtract 7
            from the damage roll)
    3.  Magic spells
    4.  Melee or hand-to-hand combat:
        1.  Choose (or attacked by) opponents
        2.  Roll 3d6 to hit; adjust result by magic weapons
        3.  GM rolls damage
3.  The second initiative winner goes next.

The GM handles any surrenders, retreats, etc. as they occur.

Range: For every 20 feet, a penalty of 1 is subtracted from the
attacker\'s to hit roll.

Cover: For every 25%, a penalty of 2 is subtracted from the attacker\'s
to hit roll (armor doesn\'t count).

[**Minions**]{#Minions .anchor}
-------------------------------

Minions are henchmen, hirelings, people / things that are hired to help
out their boss. PCs who have hirelings must pay them, unless they
require no pay. If a PC slays a minion who was a kind or loyal person,
then the GM should have some sort of punishment for that particular PC.
OCs who have minions should treat them accordingly; if the OC is a
monster, half-dinosaur, or humanoid that is evil, then the OCs will
usually treat the minions with little respect. Good OCs will do just the
opposite. If a PC wants to hire a minion, he / she should post want ads
around town. These want ads can either be word of mouth or leaf-paper.
The ad must include a salary or cut of the spoils, as well as a
description of all aspects of the job. Here is an example:

Wanted! Loyal partner for raiding expedition. Danger minimum. Pay
reasonable. Contact Sssrad Darklance for details.

[**Part 4: Gamesmaster Information**]{#part4 .anchor}
=====================================================

[**Dragonworld Creation**]{#Dragonworld .anchor}
------------------------------------------------

### [How To Build A Dragonworld]{#Howto .anchor}

Dragonworlds are the prehistoric worlds in which this game is played.
They are fairly simple to create, although they sometimes can be very
difficult to describe. Following is the steps to Dragonworld creation.

1.  Decide on a type of planet: Forest, mountainous, desert, water,
    paradise, etc.
2.  Describe interesting or important land features, such as volcanoes.
3.  List the towns, villages, and cities in the Dragonworld.
4.  List countries, describe their political systems, current ruler(s),
    list allies and enemies, etc.
5.  List the native gods and their powers.
6.  Name it.

See the sample Dragonworld for an idea of how to do this.

### [How To Build A Dungeon, Castle, Or Keep]{#HowtoCastle .anchor}

Now these are a little bit trickier. They require a map of some sort,
unless they are like the Hut of Baba Yaga (they are constantly
changing). If your dungeon / castle / keep isn\'t perfect, that\'s OK.
It takes time to get good at the art of dungeon creation. Here is how to
make one:

1.  Make a map.
2.  Describe every room, cave, and garden on a separate sheet of paper.
3.  Stock the dungeon / castle / keep with monsters, NPCs, treasure, and
    dinosaurs.
4.  Write an introductory script for the adventure tied to the dungeon.

### [How To Create A Planar Rift]{#HowtoRift .anchor}

The planar rifts are gates to other levels of existence. There are three
known planes: Law, Chaos, and the Neutral Zone. The Neutral Zone is the
plane where all of the \"normal\" people, dinosaurs, monsters, etc.
live. The plane of Law is where all good creatures live. The plane of
Chaos is where all monsters and dragons originated from; it\'s not
necessarily evil, but it is far from good. There is at least one unknown
plane: the Plane of Ethereality. This plane contains nothing as it
seems; it is the ghost realm. This plane is where the Darkmages, the
necromancers, obtain the dead souls they work with. Only the Darkmages
can open a rift to this plane. Now that you know of some of the
thousands of planes in Vox Draconis, you can go about adding your own
rifts in your adventures. You simply decide on a point where the two
planes of your choice intersect, then tear open the fabric of space.
This \"tear\", the rift, is the gate between the worlds. **Note:** Once
the rift is opened, not even the Gamesmaster can close it. The only way
is to have one of the PCs sacrifice his/herself to the rift. Only then
will it close.

[**The World of Desova: A Beginner\'s Dragonworld**]{#Desova .anchor}
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Type: Paradise

Notable Features: The Great Volcano: The nastiest, largest, and
longest-living volcano ever known.

### Towns

**Forestra:** A massive city built in the tops of the trees, to avoid
the velociraptors known to inhabit the area.

**Oceania:** The \"Floating City\", as it\'s sometimes called, is a
habitat for humans and the occasional wandering pterosaur.

**Mountainia:** This city is built in the face of a steep cliff.

**Desertania:** Actually, Desertania isn\'t a human city. It\'s a
Gargoyle city, which will often appear to be a city of stones (during
daylight).

### Countries

**Turon:** Ruled by Lord Turosi, this is a dictatorship. Turon\'s
enemies consist of all the other countries. It has no allies. Turon\'s
people are hateful and hostile to outsiders. Dragons infest this
country. Its capital is Mountainia.

**Barduche:** The High Council rules Barduche. The Council consists of
10 members, all chosen by the Battle of Wits. Only the smartest and
wisest can be on the High Council. The people of Barduche are friendly.
The capital of Barduche is Forestra. All other countries, except Turon,
are its allies. Turon is Barduche\'s only enemy.

**Dreguar:** A High King, currently Jystre Stonefist II, rules Dreguar.
He is benevolent, and the people would do anything to support him. It is
Turon\'s closest neighbor, and its worst enemy. The capital of Dreguar
is Desertania. Only Gargoyles and Elves live in Dreguar.

**Lystak:** An Archmage rules Lystak. His, or her, identity is never
revealed. Archmages are chosen from the Schools of Magic, including
starmages. Lystim has one ally: Barduche. The two countries trade often.
The Lystakian navy is the largest and deadliest. The capital of Lystak
is Oceania.

The world of Desova contains one rift to the Plane of Law in the
southernmost continent.

### Castles

**Dragon Castle:** The home of the evil Lord Turosi, this castle is
underground. The entrance is a giant cave shaped like a dragon\'s head.
Black dragons are often seen guarding the entrance. There is a maze of
tunnels and caverns below the surface. Only Turosi and the natives can
navigate it without the aid of a map, which cannot be found anywhere on
the surface.

**Dawn Palace:** This castle in the city of Desertania is the home of
the Knights of Solak, the proud Gargoyle and Elven warriors. The castle
is built out of sandstone. Only the Knights know the twisting corridors
by heart. Players can become Knights of Solak if they are Priests of
Solak or Warriors.

### The Gods of Desova

**Solak:** The King of Gods. He reigns over most of the gods. Priests of
Solak have 1d6+2 LP. They also have the power to intimidate others
(Monsters run on a 5+ on a 1d6).

**Gerodine:** The God of Healing. Priests of Gerodine have 1d6+1 LP and
can heal anytime for 1d6-2 LP. Must, however, prepare a bundle of
sacrificial herbs every week. These herbs can be found only near
waterfalls or Temples of Gerodine.

**Syjham:** The Goddess of Life. Priests of Syjham have 1d6 LP. They can
resurrect dead animals/people on a roll of 6 on 1d6. Priests must also
protect life.

**D\'Arva:** The God of Evil. This god will kill Priests who are not
loyal. He will also aid any evil entities in acts of evil. Priests of
D\'Arva have 1d6 LP. They can make and use the Dark Sword, a weapon of
pure evil. It must be forged at midnight, and cooled in the Priest\'s
own blood. Then, it must be enchanted by placing a portion of the
Priest\'s Life Force(1d6 Life Points) in the sword. This weapon does
4d6+4 damage and does not break. However, it may shatter unexpectedly if
D\'Arva wishes it, along with the Priest whom it belongs to.

**Dystrik:** The God of Death. He is very hostile to everyone, except
Stysk. Dystrik requires a blood sacrifice every month. This sacrifice
can be any animal or person, except for Gargoyles. He grants his priests
the ability to use all weapons and armor, and gives them bonus magical
powers if they kill for him. Priests of Dystrik gain 1d6+2 LP.

**Stysk:** The God of War. Stysk stops at nothing to cause war, pain,
and destruction. Like Dystrik, priests of Stysk gain the use of weapons
and armor. However, unlike Stysk, Dystrik does not like blood
sacrifices. In fact, he abhors them. He believes it is a waste of life.

[**Monster List**]{#Monsters .anchor}
-------------------------------------

**Anklyosaurus:** 2d6 dmg. , 4d6+5 HP, AC 4

Armored, 4-legged herbivorous dinosaur.

**Apatosaurus:** 2d6+2 dmg., 4d6+10 HP, AC 7

Very large herbivorous dinosaur with a long neck.

**Basilisk:** 1d6+1 dmg. + paralysis, 1d6 HP, AC 9

Small lizard with greyish green skin.

**Brachiosaurus:** 2d6+3 dmg., 5d6 HP, AC 6

Similar to the apatosaurus, but more aggressive.

**Centaur:** 3d6 dmg., 4d6 HP, AC 8

Half horse, half man.

**Chimaera:** 5d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 10

A three headed(snake, lion, and ram) monster.

**Coelophysis:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6-1 HP, AC 10

A small carnivorous dinosaur.

**Dilophosaur:** 2d6-1 dmg. + paralysis, 2d6-2 HP, AC 9

A medium sized carnivorous dinosaur that spits poison.

**Dire Wolf:** 4d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 5

Wolf that twice its normal size.

**Doppelganger (Killer shapeshifter):** Damage varies with shape

A creature that takes the shape of others.

**Dragon, Black:** 5d6 dmg. + poison(1d6 x 10), 4d6 HP, AC 3

Blackscaled dragon. Carnivorous.

**Dragon, Blue:** 4d6 dmg. + poison gas(1d6-2 x 10), 3d6 HP, AC 4

Bluescaled dragon. Carnivorous.

**Dragon, Yellow:** 2d6 dmg., 6d6 HP, AC 3

Yellowscaled dragon. Carnivorous.

**Dragon, Gold:** 6d6 dmg., 7d6 HP, AC 1

Goldscaled dragon. Omnivorous.

**Dragon, Gray:** 3d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 7

Greyscaled dragon. Omnivorous.

**Dragon, Red:** 3d6 dmg.+ fire (1d6 x 5), 2d6 HP, AC 7

Redscaled dragon. Carnivorous.

**Dragon, Green:** 1d6 dmg. + poison gas (6d6 x 5), 2d6 HP, AC 6

Greenscaled dragon. Herbivorous.

**Dryad:** 1d6-2 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 10

A tree spirit.

**Gallamimus:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6+1 HP, AC 8

An ostrichlike herbivorous dinosaur.

**Gargoyle:** 3d6-1 dmg., 1d6+5 HP, AC varies with armor

Stone Elf. See Races.

**Ghost:** 0d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC -999 (Only a magical weapon can hit a
ghost)

A dead spirit.

**Ghoul:** 2d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 0

An undead.

**Giant, Frost:** 1d6 dmg. + paralyze, 2d6 HP, AC 7

An icy giant.

**Giant, Fire:** 2d6 dmg. + fire (1d6+1), 2d6+2 HP, AC 6

A firey giant.

**Giant, Cloud:** 1d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 0

A windy giant.

**Giant, Stone:** 5d6 dmg., 4d6 HP, AC 2

A rocky giant.

**Giant, Storm:** 3d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 5

A stormy giant.

**Gnoll:** 1d6-1 dmg., 1d6-1 HP, AC 9

A doglike humanoid monster. Travels in packs of 2-12.

**Goblin:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6+1 HP, AC varies with armor

A green skinned humanoid with pointed ears. Very short.

**Gorgon:** 1d6 dmg. + turn to stone, 2d6 HP, AC 8

A hideous monster that turns people to stone just by looking at them.

**Gryphon:** 3d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 6

Half eagle, half lion.

**Harpy:** 2d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 5

A very nasty half bird, half woman.

**Hill Burrower:** 1d6-3 dmg., 1d6-2 HP, AC -3

**Hippogriff:** 2d6 dmg., 4d6 HP, AC 5

Half lion, half horse.

**Hobgoblin:** 1d6+2 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 4

A mansized goblin.

**Hydra:** 9d6 dmg., 9d6 HP, AC 9

A nine headed serpent. When one head is killed, damage becomes 8d6, and
so on.

**Kobold:** 1d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 8

A goblin like creature with fur.

**Kraken:** 10d6 dmg., 10d6 HP, AC 0

A gigantic giant squid.

**Manticore:** 3d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 3

Half lion, half scorpion.

**Megalosaur:** 2d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 2

Giant 4 legged carnivorous dinosaur.

**Megasaur:** 4d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 6

Large 2 legged carnivorous dinosaur.

**Minotaur:** 2d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 3

Half man, half bull.

**Naga:** 1d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 4

Half man, half serpent(the lower half). Can change into a snake.

**Night-Gaunt:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC -3

A shadowlike ghost.

**Nymph:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 9

A beautiful female human(in appearance) that is immortal.

**Ogre:** 4d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 7

An ugly, very strong 7 foot tall monster.

**Orc:** damage varies, 1d6+1 HP, AC varies with armor

An uglier version of a goblin.

**Pegasus:** 2d6 dmg., 4d6 HP, AC 6

A winged horse.

**Phoenix:** 4d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 4

A flaming bird.

**Pixie:** 1 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC -3

A fairy. Uses Pixie magic - Illusion BC 50%, create an illusion. Pixies
are, most of the time, invisible.

**Pterodactyl:** 3d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 6

A flying dinosaur.

**Pterodon:** 3d6-1 dmg., 1d6-1 HP, AC 7

Similar to a pterodactyl, except has a bone protruding from the back of
its skull.

**Pterosaur:** 2d6 dmg., 1d6-2 HP, AC 8

Similar to a pterodon.

**Roc:** 2d6 dmg., 5d6 HP, AC 9

A huge bird(20 ft tall).

**Satyr:** damage varies, 1d6+1 HP, AC varies with armor

Half man, half goat.

**Skeleton:** 2d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 10

An animated skeleton. Undead.

**Specter:** 1d6 dmg. + paralyze, 1d6 HP, AC 6

A ghost, but very nasty.

**Sphinx:** 4d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 5

Part woman, part bird, part lion.

**Spitting Naja:** 1d6 dmg. + poison (1d6 x 10), 1d6-3 HP, AC 10

A poisonous snake.

**Sylph:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 10

A magical elf like water spirit.

**Titan:** 1d6 x 5 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 4

A really big giant(100 ft tall)

**Troll:** 1d6 dmg., 2d6 HP, AC 1

An ogrelike monster that guards bridges.

**Tyrannosaurus Rex:** 6d6 dmg., 5d6 HP, AC 8

A giant carnivorous dinosaur.

**Unicorn:** 3d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 8

Half horse, half magic. Unicorns can heal 1d6 damage per turn.

**Vampire:** 1d6 dmg. + blood drain (1d6 per turn), Unlimited HP, AC 3

An undead creature that is very hard to kill (must have a stake driven
through its heart).

**Velociraptor:** 4d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC 5

A medium sized, intelligent carnivorous dinosaur.

**Werewolf:** 1d6 dmg.+ lycanthropy, 2d6 HP, AC 7

A man that changes into a wolf. Beware! He can pass this onto you
through his bite.

**Wight:** 1d6 dmg. + energy drain (3d6), 2d6 HP, AC 2

An undead ghostlike apparition.

**Wraith:** 1d6 dmg., 1d6 HP, AC -2

Same as wight, but without an energy drain and twice as hard to destroy.

**Wyvern:** 3d6 dmg., 3d6 HP, AC 6

A small dragon.

**Zombie:** 1d6 dmg., 4d6 HP, AC 10

A recently dead undead.

[**Vox Draconis Magic System**]{#Magic .anchor}
-----------------------------------------------

### [SPELL LIST]{#SpellList .anchor}

#### Fire Magic

**Command Lava:** Base Chance- 10%, 8 Spell Points

Lets the caster control and shape lava.

**Transform Fire:** Base Chance- 25%, 10 Spell Points

Lets the cast shape fire. Great for illusions.

**Fireball:** Base Chance- 40%, 2 Spell Point

Causes a large fireball doing 1d6 x level damage to fly toward the
target.

**Explosion:** Base Chance- 20%, 15 Spell Points.

Creates an explosion up to 100\' away. The explosion has a radius of
20\', and does 3d6 damage to everything in its area of effect.

**Burning Hands:** Base Chance-45%, 1 Spell Point

Burns whoever the caster touches, doing 1d6 damage.

**Flame Arrow:** Base Chance-30%, 5 Spell Points

Creates a flaming arrow that flies toward the target, doing 1d6+2 ร
level damage.

**Wall of Fire:** Base Chance-20%, 10 Spell Points

Creates a 20\' tall wall of fire. Anything passing through or caught in
the wall takes 4d6 damage.

**Meteors:** Base Chance-10%, 20 Spell Points

10 small meteors fly toward the target, each doing 3d6 damage.

**Resist Fire:** Base Chance-30%, 5 Spell Points to cast, 1 Spell Point
to maintain

Prevents fire damage to the caster.

**Focus Heat:** Base Chance-40%, 7 Spell Points

Focuses the sun\'s rays on a target, doing 2d6 damage.

**Produce Fire:** Base Chance-30%, 4 Spell Points

Creates a small fire. Does 1d6 damage if used as a weapon.

**Flame Strike:** Base Chance-15%, 20 Spell Points

Calls down a blast of fire from the heavens. Does 6d6 damage.

**Summon Fire Elemental:** Base Chance-10%, 30 Spell Points

Creates a fire elemental that obeys the caster\'s commands for 10
minutes, at which time it vanishes.

#### Shadow Magic

**Planar Teleport:** Base Chance 15%, 20 Spell Points

Moves the caster to a new plane.

**Rift, Major:** Base Chance- 5%, 50 Spell Points

Creates a permanent Rift in the planes.

**Rift, Minor:** Base Chance- 20%, 15 Spell Points

Creates a Rift lasting 10 minutes in the planes.

**Teleport:** Base Chance- 35%, 5 Spell Points

Teleports the caster to a chosen point within a 5 mile radius.

**Abjure:** Base Chance-15%, 7 Spell Points

Teleports extraplanar creatures back to their own plane.

**Negative Plane Protection:** Base Chance-20%, 10 Spell Points to cast,
2 to maintain

Protects the caster from undead draining attacks.

**Summon Shadow:** Base Chance-10%, 10 Spell Points to cast, 5 to
maintain

Summons a shadow that obeys the caster\'s commands.

**Summon Planar Creature:** Base Chance-5%, 20 Spell Points

Summons a random creature that obeys the caster. Can never return to its
normal plane unless abjured.

#### Necromantic Magic

**Command Spirit:** Base Chance- 5%, 20 Spell Points

Lets the caster control ghosts, wraiths, undead, etc.

**Raise Dead:** Base Chance- 10%, 25 Spell Points

Animates the dead.

**Control:** Base Chance- 15%, 20 Spell Points

Lets the caster control another person\'s body.

**Speak with Dead:** Base Chance- 20%, 10 Spell Points

Lets the caster ask the spirits one question.

**Kill:** Base Chance- 15%, 15 Spell Points

Kills the target.

**Resurrect:** Base Chance- 5%, 25 Spell Points

Brings the target back to life fully healed.

You can easily create new spells. Just decide on a base chance, the
amount of Spell Points required to cast/maintain the spell, the spell\'s
description, and a name for the spell. After this, you must name the
spell type (Fire, Shadow, or Necromantic). Note that Starmages cannot
use spells.

[**Part 5: Conclusion**]{#part5 .anchor}
========================================

[**Afterword**]{#Afterword .anchor}
-----------------------------------

This game is my first attempt at a web-published RPG, so please excuse
any errors I may have made. If you have any comments, good or bad, email
me at: <ben@overmyer.net>

[Credits]{#Credits .anchor}
---------------------------

**Scott Compton:** Magic system design

**Ben Overmyer:** Overall Game Design, WWW Publishing

**Tasha Overmyer:** Game concept

**Scott Overmyer:** Editing
